
OpenXPKI Installation

Written by Martin Bartosch for the OpenXPKI project 2006
Copyright (c) 2006 by The OpenXPKI Project

Status: PRELIMINARY (work in progress)


The following command sequence should get you a running OpenXPKI instance.


1 Installation of OpenXPKI core software

1.1 Perl modules

Make sure that the necessary Perl modules are installed:

- required: OpenXPKI core modules
- required: OpenXPKI::Client module
- required: Template, the frontend module to Template::Toolkit
- recommended: OpenXPKI::Client::CLI module
- optional: other client modules as required


1.2 Adminstrative environment

1.2.1 Base configuration (install paths)

$ ./configure [--prefix DIR]

The configure script prepares the main administrative tools for installation.

Optionally the target installation directory can be specified via --prefix.
Any prefix you specify here only influences the installation paths for
the admin tools and the template location.

You can choose the individual installation prefix for your OpenXPKI 
instance later during the instance deployment and configuration step.

1.2.2 Installation

$ make && make install

This installs the required shell scripts (daemon start script
and config helper) and the XML configuration templates to the 
configured directories.


2 OpenXPKI instance deployment

2.1 Instance creation

$ openxpkiadm deploy [DIR]

The deployment step creates an initial meta-configuration file openxpki.conf
below the specified directory (or in the standard location if no directory
is specified).


2.2 Initial OpenXPKI instance configuration

$ cd ...etc/openxpki
$ openxpki-configure --createdirs

This step will ask the user for PKI details, such as the number
and names of the PKI realms to configure, CA setup, profile etc.
It writes the configuration changes to
...etc/openxpki/openxpki.conf and creates the XML configuration
files from the settings that were entered.

The --createdirs option tells openxpki-configure to create the instance
specific directories for instance specific data storage (if not specified
it will complain about missing directories).

It is possible to run the command in batch mode via --batch for automated 
configuration.
Specifying --force will allow openxpki-configure to overwrite already
existing configuration files.



2.3 Reconfiguration

Inexperienced users or those who are willing to use a simplified 
configuration can continue to use the meta configuration in 
openxpki.conf, apply changes there and generate the XML files 
from the templates. The XML configuration files will be overwritten 
by this procedure.

To do this, repeat the procedure outlined in the previous section and
run:

   $ cd .../etc/openxpki
   $ ./openxpki-configure --force

NOTE that this will overwrite the XML files in this directory!

Advanced users will probably choose not to use the meta configuration 
and modify the XML files directly:

   $ cd .../etc/openxpki
   $ rm -f openxpki.conf
   $ vi config.xml token.xml ...



3. Database setup

In order to initialize the database run

$ openxpkiadm initdb



4. Running the server

You can start OpenXPKI by running

$ openxpkictl start

To stop the daemon use

$ openxpkictl stop

